.TH RUN-OR-RAISE 1 2021
.SH NAME
run\-or\-raise \- utility for launching applications or focusing their windows
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B run\-or\-raise
\fICONDITION PROGRAM\fR [\fIARGS\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBrun\-or\-raise\fR is a utility for launching applications or focusing their
windows. When invoked, \fBrun\-or\-raise\fR matches existing windows against
\fICONDITION\fR. If a matching window is found, it is focused. If none of the
windows match the criteria, \fBrun\-or\-raise\fR executes \fIPROGRAM\fR passing
any \fIARGS\fR to it as arguments.
.SH CONDITIONS
Conditions select windows based on their properties. Conditions support two
comparison operators: \fB=\fR for exact equality comparison with a string
literal and \fB~\fR work comparing with a regular expression.
.P
Comparisons can be combined using logical operators: \fB&&\fR for logical
\fIAND\fR, \fB||\fR for logical \fIOR\fR, and \fB!\fR for logical \fINOT\fR.
Operators in matching expressions are left-associative and \fB!\fR (not) binds
stronger than \fB&&\fR (and) which, in turn, binds stronger than \fB||\fR (or).
Possible properties are \fBclass\fR, \fBname\fR, and \fBrole\fR. Additionally,
parentheses can be used to alter evaluation order. Strings and regular
expressions are written inside double quotes. If multiple windows match the
criteria, the first matching window is selected.
.P
Bellow are some examples of how conditions can be used to select windows in
various ways:
.P
.nf
.RS
# Launch or focus emacs
run-or-raise 'class = "Emacs"' emacs

# You can also use regular expressions for matching
# Match windows with title ending with the string "Firefox"
run-or-raise 'name ~ ".*Firefox$"' firefox

# You can combine multiple comparisons with logical operators.
# Match windows with the role browser that do not have the class Chromium.
run-or-raise 'role = "browser" && ! class = "Chromium"' firefox
.RE
.fi
.SH AUTHORS
Samuel Laurén <samuel.lauren@iki.fi>
